xxxvi IN TROD U CTION.

seruos. The action ison the plane os respectable society.
There is also a positive note in the play os higher tone than
is usual with PlautuS. The character and situation both os
Hegio and of the two captives approach tragedy, and the
sels-sacrifice of Tyndarus for the master whom he loved is
most admirable. All this belongs, of course, to the Greek
original, and Plautus himself calls attention in the prologue
and again in the epilogue to the fact that he had found a
Greek play os unusual elevation of tone and plot. When
Camerarius and Lessing praised the Captives so extrava-
gantly, it waS, in reality, the Greek original that they were
praising.

Modern critiCS, however, do not rate the Captives so high.
Plautus was by nature and by training a writer of {arce and
burlesque, who entered with full appreciation into the comedy
os slave-life. His special field is in the absurd and short-
sighted and impudent trickery practiced by slaves upon their
masters, More than half of his⁴ plots turn upon such inci-
dentS, and it was from them that he drew the comic element
which made his plays popular. His very vocabulary was
saturated with slang terms sor cheating. Now even in the
Greek original the deception of Hegio by the captives must
have required delicate handling ς his grief for the loss of his
son was great and his dealing with the captives was gener-
ous and frank, and only the most careful treatment by the
dramatist would make it possible to represent their deception
os him without lowering their character and his and spoiling
the play. For such treatment Plautus had not sufficient
skill. He confuses the situation with the very different one
which he used in other playS‚ the soolish father cheated of
his money by the cunning slave for the benefit of the young
lover. Hegio becomes in part the comicus stultus senex,
chiefly concerned with the humiliation of having been de-
ceived (781 ff.) ; Tyndarus uses the vocabulary of the

 

 

